README.md, before:

# ElizaOS Coolify Production Deployment

Production-ready ElizaOS deployment configuration for Coolify, Docker, and self-hosted environments.

---

## Quick Coolify Deployment

1. **Point Coolify** to this repository (public Github deploy)
2. **Build Pack** `Docker Compose`
3. **Use `docker-compose.yaml`** as compose file (includes PostgreSQL)
4. **Set environment variables using the UI**: e.g. `OPENAI_API_KEY`
5. **Coolify deploys**
6. **Manage** with `./scripts/status-elizaos.sh`

Assuming you already have wildcard DNS and SSL setup (via the built in proxy) you can set the URL to be https://eliza.yourcoolify.tld.com and 


### Required Environment Variables

```bash
# AI Provider (REQUIRED - choose one)
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-your-openai-key-here
# OR ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-your-key
# OR GEMINI_API_KEY=your-gemini-key

# Database is auto-configured with internal PostgreSQL

# Production Settings (optional)
NODE_ENV=production
LOG_LEVEL=info
JWT_SECRET=your-secure-secret
```

---


## Architecture

### Core Components
- **ElizaOS CLI** - Built with `@elizaos/cli@latest` (published package approach)
- **PM2 Process Manager** - Auto-restart, monitoring, resource limits  
- **PostgreSQL Database** - Internal database (auto-configured) or external
- **Health Monitoring** - API endpoints + PM2 status tracking
- **Security Hardening** - Non-root user, proper permissions, CORS

### Key Features
- **Production-ready** - Optimized for server deployment
- **One agent per container** - Scalable microservice architecture
- **Local package installation** - ElizaOS CLI installed locally, not globally as root

---

## Alternative Deployment Options

### Option 1: Advanced Coolify (External PostgreSQL)

For shared/existing PostgreSQL instances:
1. Create or use existing PostgreSQL database
2. Use `docker-compose.slim.yaml` as compose file  
3. Set required environment variables: `POSTGRES_URL`, `OPENAI_API_KEY`

### Option 2: Local Testing (Full Stack)

```bash
# Quick setup with internal PostgreSQL (same as Coolify quick deploy)
cp env.example .env
# Edit .env with your AI provider API key
docker-compose up -d
```

### Option 3: Production (External Database)

```bash
# External PostgreSQL deployment
cp env.example .env
# Set POSTGRES_URL and other production variables
docker-compose -f docker-compose.slim.yaml up -d
```

---

## Process Management

**Inside Container:**
```bash
# Comprehensive status check
./scripts/status-elizaos.sh

# Start/restart ElizaOS
./scripts/start-elizaos.sh

# Stop ElizaOS gracefully
./scripts/stop-elizaos.sh
```

**Outside Container:**
```bash
# Status check
docker exec <container> ./scripts/status-elizaos.sh

# Start/restart
docker exec <container> ./scripts/start-elizaos.sh

# Stop gracefully
docker exec <container> ./scripts/stop-elizaos.sh
```

### Direct PM2 Commands
```bash
# View status
docker exec <container> pm2 list

# View logs
docker exec <container> pm2 logs elizaos

# Restart application
docker exec <container> pm2 restart elizaos

# Monitor resources
docker exec <container> pm2 monit
```

---

## Environment Configuration

### Required Variables
```bash
# Database (REQUIRED)
POSTGRES_URL=postgresql://username:password@hostname:5432/database_name

# AI Provider (REQUIRED - choose one or more)
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-your-openai-api-key
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-your-anthropic-key-here
GEMINI_API_KEY=your-gemini-key-here
```

### Production Settings
```bash
# Core Configuration
NODE_ENV=production
API_PORT=3000
HOST=0.0.0.0  # Essential for Docker networking
LOG_LEVEL=info
```

---

## Character Configuration

### Default Character
The included `characters/server-bod.character.json` provides a sample baseline for deployment testing.

---

## Scaling

### Horizontal Scaling
Deploy multiple instances with different configurations:

```bash
# Agent 1 - Discord
DISCORD_API_TOKEN=bot-1-token
docker-compose -f docker-compose.slim.yaml up -d

# Agent 2 - Telegram  
TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN=bot-2-token
docker-compose -f docker-compose.slim.yaml -p eliza-telegram up -d
```

---

## References

- [ElizaOS Documentation](https://eliza.how/docs/intro)
- [ElizaOS GitHub](https://github.com/elizaOS/eliza)
- [PM2 Documentation](https://pm2.keymetrics.io/docs/)
- [Coolify Documentation](https://coolify.io/docs)
- [Docker Best Practices](https://docs.docker.com/develop/dev-best-practices/)

Commit message:

fix: move character files to avoid volume mount conflicts
- Move characters/ to config/characters/ to prevent Coolify volume overrides
- Update Dockerfile to copy config/ directory instead of characters/
- Update ecosystem.config.js to reference new character file path
- Update start.sh validation to check new character file location

This resolves the deployment issue where Coolify's volume mounting was
overriding the character files copied during Docker build, causing
"Character file not found" errors at runtime.

README.md, after:

# ElizaOS Coolify Production Deployment

Production-ready ElizaOS deployment configuration for Coolify, Docker, and self-hosted environments.

---

## Quick Coolify Deployment

1. **Point Coolify** to this repository (public Github deploy)
2. **Build Pack** `Docker Compose`
3. **Use `docker-compose.yaml`** as compose file (includes PostgreSQL)
4. **Set environment variables using the UI**: e.g. `OPENAI_API_KEY`
5. **Coolify deploys**
6. **Manage** with `./scripts/status-elizaos.sh`

Assuming you already have wildcard DNS and SSL setup so `*.your-coolify.tld.com` works (via the built in proxy) then you can set the URL to be `https://your-character.your-coolify.tld.com` and test the web UI. 


### Required Environment Variables

```bash
# AI Provider (REQUIRED - choose one)
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-your-openai-key-here
# OR ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-your-key
# OR GEMINI_API_KEY=your-gemini-key

# Database is auto-configured with internal PostgreSQL

# Production Settings (optional)
NODE_ENV=production
LOG_LEVEL=info
JWT_SECRET=your-secure-secret
```

---


## Architecture

### Core Components
- **ElizaOS CLI** - Built with `@elizaos/cli@latest` (published package approach)
- **PM2 Process Manager** - Auto-restart, monitoring, resource limits  
- **PostgreSQL Database** - Internal database (auto-configured) or external
- **Health Monitoring** - API endpoints + PM2 status tracking
- **Security Hardening** - Non-root user, proper permissions, CORS

### Key Features
- **Production-ready** - Optimized for server deployment
- **One agent per container** - Scalable microservice architecture
- **Local package installation** - ElizaOS CLI installed locally, not globally as root

---

## Alternative Deployment Options

### Option 1: Advanced Coolify (External PostgreSQL)

For shared/existing PostgreSQL instances:
1. Create or use existing PostgreSQL database
2. Use `docker-compose.slim.yaml` as compose file  
3. Set required environment variables: `POSTGRES_URL`, `OPENAI_API_KEY`

### Option 2: Local Testing (Full Stack)

```bash
# Quick setup with internal PostgreSQL (same as Coolify quick deploy)
cp env.example .env
# Edit .env with your AI provider API key
docker-compose up -d
```

### Option 3: Production (External Database)

```bash
# External PostgreSQL deployment
cp env.example .env
# Set POSTGRES_URL and other production variables
docker-compose -f docker-compose.slim.yaml up -d
```

---

## Process Management

**Inside Container:**
```bash
# Comprehensive status check
./scripts/status-elizaos.sh

# Start/restart ElizaOS
./scripts/start-elizaos.sh

# Stop ElizaOS gracefully
./scripts/stop-elizaos.sh
```

**Outside Container:**
```bash
# Status check
docker exec <container> ./scripts/status-elizaos.sh

# Start/restart
docker exec <container> ./scripts/start-elizaos.sh

# Stop gracefully
docker exec <container> ./scripts/stop-elizaos.sh
```

### Direct PM2 Commands
```bash
# View status
docker exec <container> pm2 list

# View logs
docker exec <container> pm2 logs elizaos

# Restart application
docker exec <container> pm2 restart elizaos

# Monitor resources
docker exec <container> pm2 monit
```

---

## Environment Configuration

### Required Variables
```bash
# Database (REQUIRED)
POSTGRES_URL=postgresql://username:password@hostname:5432/database_name

# AI Provider (REQUIRED - choose one or more)
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-your-openai-api-key
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-your-anthropic-key-here
GEMINI_API_KEY=your-gemini-key-here
```

### Production Settings
```bash
# Core Configuration
NODE_ENV=production
API_PORT=3000
HOST=0.0.0.0  # Essential for Docker networking
LOG_LEVEL=info
```

---

## Character Configuration

### Default Character
The included `characters/server-bod.character.json` provides a sample baseline for deployment testing.

---

## Scaling

### Horizontal Scaling
Deploy multiple instances with different configurations:

```bash
# Agent 1 - Discord
DISCORD_API_TOKEN=bot-1-token
docker-compose -f docker-compose.slim.yaml up -d

# Agent 2 - Telegram  
TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN=bot-2-token
docker-compose -f docker-compose.slim.yaml -p eliza-telegram up -d
```

---

## References

- [ElizaOS Documentation](https://eliza.how/docs/intro)
- [ElizaOS GitHub](https://github.com/elizaOS/eliza)
- [PM2 Documentation](https://pm2.keymetrics.io/docs/)
- [Coolify Documentation](https://coolify.io/docs)
- [Docker Best Practices](https://docs.docker.com/develop/dev-best-practices/)
